In this demonstration,
you will learn how to use CodeLens to view the changes of your code.
Let's switch to Visual Studio.
Here I've opened the WiredBrainCoffee.ShopInfoTool solution.
Let's double-click the Program.cs file and let's say you want
to know when the Program class was changed.
You learned in the previous clip that you can right-click it here and you
can select View History to view the history of this file.
But instead of using this context menu in the Solution Explorer,
you can turn on CodeLens to see the changes directly in the code.
So let's go to the Tools menu and let's select Options.
In the search box, let's enter here CodeLens.
As you can see, CodeLens is available under Text Editor,
All Languages, CodeLens.
Let's select it.
As you can see, I have not enabled it.
Now let's check this check box to enable CodeLens.
CodeLens is available in all editions of Visual Studio 2019: Community,
Professional, and Enterprise.
But the lenses for source control are only available in
the Enterprise edition of Visual Studio.
I'm using here the Enterprise edition of Visual Studio 2019,
so I have here lenses for Git like Show Timeline and Show Authors and Changes.
Now let's click OK.
Now you can see the lenses on the classes and their members.
So here on the Program class,
you can see now the timeline lens and also the authors and changes lens.
When you click on the timeline here,
you can see the timeline with all the changes.
You can see commits were made during the last four days.
So let's hover here the oldest commit, and you can see this was the commit,
Add project files.
You can also see here the different authors.
Julia has made here this blue commit.
Let's hover it.
Here you can see that she adjusted the help message.
Then there is also a commit that is not a circle, but a triangle.
This is a merge commit.
Let's hover it, and you can see this is a merge commit.
It has the commit message, Merge Julia's help message.
So this timeline gives you a clue what changes happened and
how frequently this class was changed.
You can also see here that the last change was 10 hours ago.
Now let's click here on the authors and changes lens.
Here you can see all the commits where this Program.cs file was adjusted.
You can double-click a commit here,
and then the Commit Details page in Team Explorer is shown with that commit.
Let's click again here on authors and changes.
You can also click here on Show all file changes and then the
history view of the Program.cs file opens.
Now let's look at another file.
Let's go to the CoffeeShop.cs file.
Here on the class you can see that Julia Developer has
changed this class 12 hours ago.
Let's click on the timeline lens to see the commits in the timeline.
So here is a blue commit from Thomas, Add data access project to solution.
Here is the purple commit from Julia, Add PaperCupsInStock property.
Now let's click here on authors and changes.
Here you can see the two commits.
Let's double-click the commit Add data access project to solution,
and you can see this was the commit where Thomas
has added the CoffeeShop.cs file.
Let's click again on authors and changes here and
let's double-click the other commit,
and you can see this was the commit where Julia has
added the PaperCupsInStock property.
You can also see the lenses for source control on the
individual members of this class.
For example,
the PaperCupsInStock property has just a single author and a single change.
Let's click on this and you can see that there is only a single
commit where Julia has added this property.
Also when you go to the timeline,
you can see this single commit here and you can hover it,
and you can see this is the Add PaperCupsInStock property commit.
The great thing about CodeLens is that you can see the
changes directly in the code editor.
You don't have to leave the code editor to find out
more about the history of your code.
All right, so far to CodeLens. Now let's wrap up what you have learned in this module.